Captain's Log,
Stardate 2947.3.
We have been through
a severe ion storm.
One crewman is dead.
The ship's damage
is considerable.
I've ordered
a non scheduled layover
on Starbase 11
for repairs.
A full report of damages
was made
to the commanding officer
of Starbase 11-- Commodore Stone.
Maintenance,
Section 18.
The section is working
on the Intrepid.
Reschedule.
The Enterprise is on Priority 1 .
That makes three times
you've read it,Jim.
Is there an error?
No.
But the death
of the crewman...
Regulations, Captain.
And the extract from
your ship's computer log
confirming this
sworn deposition?
Kirk to Enterprise.
[Uhura]
Bridge here.
Where's Mr. Spock with
that computer log extract?
He should have been there
10 minutes ago, sir.
Kirk out.
It's a great pity.
The service can't afford
to lose men like
Lieutenant Commander Finney.
I agree.
I waited until
the last possible moment.
We were on red alert,
the storm got worse.
I had to jettison
the pod.
What took so long,
Mr. Spock?
Captain,
I believe I--
I'll take that.
Jame.
There you are.
I just wanted one more look at you--
the man who killed my father.
- That's not so. He was my friend.
- Your friend?
You hated him
all your life!
That's why you killed him,
you murderer!
You murderer!
Jame--
Mr. Spock,
would you please--
Miss Finney,
come with me, please.
Captain Kirk,
you say you jettisoned the pod
after the red alert?
You have
my sworn deposition.
Then, Captain,
I must presume
you've committed
willful perjury.
This extract from your computer log
says you jettisoned the pod
before going
to red alert.
Consider yourself
confined to the base.
Official inquiry
will determine
whether a general court-martial
is in order.
Space-- the final frontier.
These are the voyages
of the starship Enterprise.
Its five-year mission--
to explores trange
new worlds...
to seek out new life
and new civilizations...
to boldly go
where no man has gone before.
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
Captain's Log,
Stardate 2948.5.
Starship Enterprise remains
in orbit around Starbase 11.
Full repair
is in progress.
I've been ordered
to standbyon Starbase 11
until the inquirinto the death
of Lieutenant Commander Finney
can be conducted.
I'm confident
of the outcome.
Timothy,
I haven't seen you
since the Vulcanian
expedition.
Well, I see our graduating class
from the academy
is well represented.
Argan, Heller.
How you doing, Mike?
I'll get by,Jim.
I understand you're laying over
for repairs.
Big job?
Couple of days.
You moving out then?
- In a hurry to see me go?
- I just wondered how long it'd take
to get a new
records officer.
You can talk
plainer than that.
I can,
but I think
the point's been made.
Ben was a friend of ours.
Jim, let's--
Go on. Finish.
Ben was a friend
of yours, and--
Jim.
Go on.
I'm waiting
to hear the rest.
Why don't
you tell us?
What would be the point?
You've already
made up your minds.
Excuse me, Bones.
If you have any doubt,
that was indeed Captain James Kirk
of the Enterprise.
Yes, I know.
Are you a friend of his?
In these trying times,
one of the few.
Dr. Leonard McCoy.
And you?
Areel Shaw.
And I'm a friend, too--
an old one.
All of my old friends
look like doctors.
All of his look
like you.
Well, you might as well
join me for a drink.
With this inquiry
coming up,
he's going to need
all the friends he can get.
[Click]
Recording inquir.
Matter-- Captain Kirk,
James T.
Subject--
circumstances of death,
Lieutenant Commander Finney,
Benjamin.
This inquiry to determine
whether a general court-martial
should be convened
against Captain Kirk
on charges of perjury
and culpable negligence.
Ready.
Let us begin
with your relationship
with Commander Finney.
You knew him for
a long time, didn't you?
Yes.
He was an instructor at the academy
when I was a midshipman.
But that didn't stand in the way
of our beginning a close friendship.
His daughter Jame, who was here
last night, was named after me.
It's common knowledge that
something happened to your friendship.
It's no secret.
We were assigned to the same ship
some years later.
I relieved him
on watch once
and found a circuit open to the atomic
matter piles that should've been closed.
Another five minutes,
it could have
blown up the ship.
Ship nomenclature--
specify.
United Starship Republic,
number 1371 .
Continue.
I closed the switch
and logged the incident.
He drew a reprimand
and was sent to the bottom
of the promotion list.
And he blamed you for that?
Yes.
He'd been at the academy
for an unusually long time
as an instructor.
As a result,
he was late
in being assigned
to a starship.
The delay, he felt,
looked bad on his record.
My action, he believed,
made things worse.
Comment--
service record of Lieutenant
Commander Finney
to be appended
this inquiry.
Noted.
Now, let's get into the specifics
of the storm, Captain.
Weather scan indicated
an ion storm dead ahead.
I sent Finney
into the pod.
Why Finney?
His name was at the top
of the duty roster.
- If he blamed you--
- He may have blamed me
that he never rose to command a ship,
but I don't assign jobs
on the basis
of who blames me.
It was Finney's turn,
and I assigned him.
He had just checked in
with me from the pod
when we hit the leading edge
of the storm.
Not too bad at first.
I signaled
a yellow alert.
Then we began
encountering pressure,
variant stress,
force 7, the works.
I finally signaled
a red alert.
Finney knew he had
a matter of seconds.
I gave him
those seconds and more.
But...
apparently
it wasn't enough.
Then why, Captain, does
the computer log from your ship,
made automatically
at the time,
indicate that you were still
on yellow alert when you jettisoned
and not on red?
I don't know.
- There's been a mistake.
- It would seem so.
Could the computer
be wrong?
Mr. Spock is running
a survey right now,
but the odds are
next to impossible.
Stop recording.
Now, look,Jim.
Not one man
in a million
could do what you and I have done--
command a starship.
A hundred
decisions a day,
hundreds of lives staked on you
making every one of them right.
You're played out,Jim.
- Exhausted.
- Is that the way you see it?
That's the way my report'll read
ifyou cooperate.
Physical breakdown,
possibly even mental collapse?
- Possibly.
- I'd be admitting that a man died--
Admit nothing.
Say nothing.
Let me bury
the matter here and now.
No starship captain
has ever stood trial before,
and I don't want you
to be the first.
But if what you suspect is true,
then I should be punished.
I'm thinking of the service.
I won't have it smeared.
By what, Commodore Stone?
All right. By an evident perjurer
who's either covering his bad judgment,
his cowardice, or--
That's as far
as you go, sir.
I'm telling you
I was there on the bridge.
I know what happened.
I know what I did.
It's in the transcript,
and computer transcripts
don't lie.
I'm telling you,
Captain,
either you accept
a permanent ground assignment,
or the whole disciplinary weight
of Starfleet command
is gonna light
right on your neck.
So that's the way we do it now? Sweep it
under the rug, and me along with it?
Not on your life.
I intend to fight.
Then you draw a general court.
Draw it? I demand it. And right now,
Commodore Stone. Right now.
Captain's Log,
Stardate 2948.9.
The officers who will comprise
my court-martial board
are proceeding
to Starbase 11.
Meanwhile, repairs on the Enterprise
are almost complete.
Areel.
Dr. McCoy said
you were here.
I should have felt it in the air
like static electricity.
Flattery will
get you everywhere.
It's been--
How long has it been?
Fouryears, seven months,
and an odd number of days--
not that
I'm counting.
You look marvelous.
You haven't changed a bit.
But things have changed
foryou, haven't they?
Oh, you've heard
about that, have you?
I'm a lawyer in
thejudge advocate's office, remember?
I remember.
Let's forget it.
We have a lot of lost time
to make up for.
You're taking it
very lightly.
- The confidence of an innocent man.
- Are you?
Mm-hmm.
That's not what
the rumors indicate.
Look,
Let's not talk shop.
Jim, this could ruin you.
Will you take some advice?
I never could
talkyou into anything.
All right. Fire away.
The prosecution
will build its case
on the basis of Kirk
versus the computer.
Now, if your attorney tries
to defend on that basis,
you won't have
a chance.
- Well, what other choice is there?
- That's up to your attorney,
and that's why
he's got to be a good one.
You, perhaps?
No. I--
I'm busy.
Well,
a girl with your ability should
be able to handle two cases at once.
Jim, be serious.
You're not
an ordinary human.
You're a Starship captain,
and you've stepped
into scandal.
If there's any way
they can do it,
they'll slap you down hard
and permanently
for the good
of the service.
You still haven't made
any recommendation.
Samuel T. Cogley,
attorney-at-law.
If anyone can
save you, he can.
He'll be paying you
a visit.
Jim, I've got to go.
Areel.
You still haven't told me
how you know so much
about what the prosecution's
going to do.
Because,Jim Kirk,
my dear old love,
I am the prosecution,
and I have to do my very best
to have you slapped down hard,
broken
out of the service...
in disgrace.
You Kirk?
Yes.
What is all this?
I figure we'll be spending some time
together, so I moved in.
I hope I'm not
crowding you.
What's the matter?
Don't you like books?
Oh, I like them fine,
but a computer takes less space.
[Scoffs]
A computer, huh?
I got one of these
in my office.
Contains
all the precedents,
a synthesis of all the great
legal decisions written throughout time.
- I never use it.
- Why not?
I've got my own system.
Books, young man, books.
Thousands of them.
Iftime wasn't so important,
I'd show you something-- my library.
Thousands of books.
- What would be the point?
- This is where the law is,
not in that homogenized,
pasteurized, synthesized--
Do you want to know the law,
the ancient concepts
in their own language,
Learn the intent of the men
who wrote them,
from Moses
to the tribunal of Alpha 3?
Books.
You have to be either an obsessive
crackpot who's escaped from his keeper
or Samuel T. Cogley,
attorney-at-law.
Right on both counts.
- Need a lawyer?
- I'm afraid so.
This court is now
in session.
I've appointed
as members of this court
Space Command
Representative Lindstrom,
Starship Captain Krasnovsky,
and Chondra.
Captain Kirk,
I direct your attention
to the fact
that you have a right to ask
for substitute officers
if you feel that any
of these named
harbor any prejudiced attitudes
to your case.
I have no
objections, sir.
Do you consent to the service
Lieutenant Shaw
as prosecuting officer
and to myself
as president of the court?
I do, sir.
All right, clerk.
Charge--
culpable negligence.
Specification--
in that on Stardate 2945.7,
by such negligence,
Captain Kirk,James T.,
did cause loss of life--
to wit, the life
of Records Officer
Lieutenant Commander
Finney, Benjamin.
To all recorded charges
and specifications,
what is the plea?
Not guilty.
Proceed, Lieutenant.
I call Mr. Spock.
Spock, serial number
S-179-276-SP.
Service rank--
Lieutenant Commander.
Position-- first officer,
science officer.
Current assignment--
U.S.S. Enterprise.
Commendations-- Vulcanian
Scientific Legion of Honor.
Awards of valor--
twice decorated
by Starfleet command.
Mr. Spock,
as a first officer, you know
a great deal
about computers, don't you?
I know all about them.
It is possible for a computer
to malfunction, is it not?
- Affirmative.
- Do you know of any malfunction
which has caused an inaccuracy
in the Enterprise computer?
Negative.
That answer is based
on your mechanical survey
of the Enterprise computer
ordered by the defendant
prior to this trial, is it not?
- Affirmative.
- Now the stardate--
But the computer
is inaccurate, never the less.
Why do you say that?
It reports that
the jettison button
was pressed before
the red alert.
In other words, it reports
that Captain Kirk
was reacting to
an extreme emergency
that did not then exist.
- And that is impossible.
- Is it?
Were you watching him the exact moment
he pressed the jettison button?
No. I was occupied.
The ship was already on yellow alert.
Then how can you dispute
the finding of the log?
I do not dispute it.
I merely state
that it is wrong.
Oh? On what do you
base that statement?
I know the captain.
He is in--
Please instruct the witness
not to speculate.
Lieutenant,
I am half Vulcanian.
Vulcanians do not speculate.
I speak from pure logic.
If I let go of a hammer
on a planet
that has a positive gravity,
I need not see it fall to know
that it has, in fact, fallen.
- I do not see what that has to--
- Gentlemen,
human beings have characteristics
just as inanimate objects do.
It is impossible
for Captain Kirk
to act out of panic or malice.
- It is not his nature.
- In your opinion.
Yes. In my opinion.
Thank you.
- Your witness, Mr. Cogley.
- No questions.
You may step down.
I now call the personnel officer
for the Enterprise.
Service rank-- ensign.
Position--
personnel officer.
Current assignment--
U.S.S. Enterprise.
In the course of your duties as
personnel officer of the Enterprise,
you would be familiar with
the service records of all aboard?
Yes, ma'am.
With reference to
Records Officer Finney,
was there in his service record
a reported disciplinary action
for failure to close a circuit?
Yes, ma'am.
Was the charge in that instance
based upon a log entry
by the officer
who relieved him?
- Yes, ma'am.
- And who was that officer?
Ensign James T. Kirk.
Louder, please,
for the court.
Ensign James T. Kirk.
Now the Captain Kirk
who sits in this court room?
- Yes, ma'am.
- Thank you.
Do you wish to cross-examine?
No questions.
You may step down.
I now call Dr. McCoy
to the stand.
Service rank--
lieutenant commander.
Position-- ship's surgeon.
Current assignment--
U.S.S. Enterprise.
Commendations--
Legion of Honor.
Awards of valor--
decorated by Starfleet surgeons.
Doctor, you are, on the record,
an expert in psychology,
especially space psychology--
patterns which develop
in the close quarters
of a ship
during long voyages
in deep space.
I know
something about it.
You havejust heard the testimony
of your own personnel officer,
that it was an action
of the then Ensign Kirk
which placed
an unerasable blot
on the record
of the then Lieutenant Finney.
Psychologically, Doctor,
is it possible
that Lieutenant Finney
blamed Kirk for the incident?
It's possible.
He could have hated Kirk
down through the years,
blamed him for being
passed over for promotion,
blamed him for never being given
a command of his own, correct?
He could have.
Now, let us hypothesize, Doctor.
Is it normal for a person
to return affection for hatred?
- No.
- Do we not tend to, at first,
resent and then actively dislike
the person who hates us?
Wait a minute.
I don't quite follow you.
Hypothetically.
Would not Captain Smith
begin to hate
Lieutenant Commander Jones
once he learned that
hated and detested him?
Well, yes, I suppose
it could happen.
Then I askyou,
is it not possible
that Captain Kirk became aware
of Lieutenant Commander Finney's
hatred toward him
and perhaps,
even involuntarily,
began to reciprocate?
Not Captain Kirk.
Any normal human, Doctor.
Is it possible?
But he's not that kind of a man.
Is it theoretically
possible, Doctor?
Yes.
It's possible.
Thank you.
- Your witness, Mr. Cogley.
- No questions.
You may step down.
Mr. Cogley.
You've listened to testimony
from three witnesses.
In neither instance
have you availed yourself
of your right
to cross-examine.
Have you abrogated
that right?
Well, sir, truth is,
I've been holding back
till we get this preliminary
business out of the way.
I'd like to call
Captain Kirk to the stand.
James T. Kirk,
serial number SC-937-0176-CEC.
Service rank-- captain.
Position-- Starship command.
Current assignment--
U.S.S. Enterprise.
Commendations-- Palm Leaf
Of Axinar Peace Mission,
Grand Kite
Order of Tactics,
Class of Excellence,
Frenterus Ribbon
of Commendation,
- Classes first and second--
- May it please the court.
Court recognizes counsel
for the prosecution.
The prosecution concedes
the inestimable record of Captain Kirk.
Mr. Cogley?
I wouldn't want to slow
the wheels of progress.
But then on the other hand,
I wouldn't want those wheels
to run over my client
in their unbridled haste.
Continue.
Awards of valor--
medal of honor,
silverpalm with cluster,
Starfleet citation
for conspicuous gallantry,
- Carragite Order of Heroism--
- Stop!
I think that's enough.
I wouldn't want
to slow things up too much.
Thank you.
Now, Captain,
despite what these
machines indicate,
was there indeed
a red alert
before you
jettisoned the pod?
Yes, sir, there was.
Please tell us about it.
Firstly, I am at a loss
to explain the errors
in the extract
from the computer log.
We were in an ion storm.
Everyone here in this court
knows the dangers involved.
I was in command.
The decisions were mine,
no one else's.
Charges of malice
have been raised.
There was no malice.
Lieutenant Commander Finney
was a member of my crew,
and that's exactly the way
he was treated.
It has been suggested that
I panicked on the bridge
and jettisoned the ion pod
prematurely.
That is not so.
You've heard some
of the details of my record.
This was not my first crisis.
It was one of many.
During it, I did what
my experience and training
required me to do.
I took the proper steps
in the proper order.
I did exactly
what had to be done
exactly when it
should have been done.
You did the right thing,
but would you do it again?
Given the same circumstances...
I would do the same thing
without hesitation...
because the steps I took
in the order I took them
were absolutely necessary
if I were to save my ship.
And nothing...
is more important
than my ship.
Your witness, Miss Shaw.
The prosecution does not wish
to dishonor this man,
but facts are facts.
I must invite
the attention of the court
and Captain Kirk
to this visual extract
from the Enterprise
computer log.
Playback.
What you are about to see
is precisely what took place
on the Enterprise bridge
during the ion storm.
Meteorology reports
ion storm upcoming, Captain.
We'll need somebody
in the pod for readings.
Mr. Finneyis top
of duty roster, Captain.
Post him.
Attention,
Commander Finney,
report topod
for reading on ion slates.
[Finney]
Message Received.
Officer posted,
Captain.
Standby on alert status,
Mr. Spock.
Acknowledged.
Approaching
ion storm, sir.
Warp factor 1,
Mr. Hanson.
Warp 1, sir.
Reverse.
Stop.
Go forward with
magnification on the panel.
Freeze that.
Captain Kirk is now
signaling a yellow alert.
Go forward, normal view.
Call from
the pod, sir.
Tie in.
Finney here, Captain.
Ion readings in progress.
Make it fast, Ben.
I may have to go to red alert.
Affirmative.
- Holdy our course, Mr. Hanson.
- Aye, aye, sir.
Natural vibrations,
force 2, Captain.
- Force 3.
- Engineering, then ionpod.
Aye, aye, sir.
- Engineering.
- One-thirdmore thrust.
- Working.
- [Finney]ionpod.
Standby to get out
of there, Ben.
Aye, aye, sir.
Force 5, sir.
Steady as she goes,
Mr. Hanson.
Freeze that!
If the court will notice,
the log plainly shows
the defendant's finger pressing
the jettison button.
The condition signal
reads yellow alert.
Not red alert,
but simply yellow alert.
When the pod containing
Lieutenant Commander Finney
was jettisoned,
the emergency
did not as yet exist.
But that's not
the way it happened.
Captain's Log,
Stardate 2949.9.
The evidence presented
by the visual playback
to my general
court-martial was damning.
I suspect even my attorney
has begun to doubt me.
- Computers don't lie.
- Are you suggesting that I did?
I'm suggesting that
maybe you did have a lapse.
It was possible, you know,
with the strain you were under.
There's still time to change our plea.
I could get you off.
Two days ago, I would've staked
anything on my judgment.
You did.
Your professional career.
I spent my whole life training
for decisionsjust like that one.
My whole life.
Is it possible that
when the moment came, l--
No.
I know what I did.
You can pull out
if you want to.
There's no place to go, except back
to court and hear the verdict.
[Communicator Beeps]
Kirk here.
Captain, I've run a complete
megalyte survey on the computer.
I'll tell you what you found.
Nothing, right?
You sound bitter, Captain.
Not bitter enough to forget
to thank you for your efforts.
Further instructions?
No.
It's not all bad, Mr. Spock.
Who knows. You may be able to beat
your next captain at chess. Kirk out.
Chess.
Jame.
This is Lieutenant
Commander Finney's daughter.
Mr. Cogley, we've
got to stop this.
Make him take
a ground assignment.
I realize it wasn't his fault.
I won't make any trouble.
- Make him change his plea.
- It's too late for that,Jame.
But I'm glad you don't blame me
anymore for what happened.
I was just so upset that night.
I'm sorry.
- Don't say any more.
- But I have to.
I never realized how close
you and Dad had been
until I read through
some papers he wrote,
Ietters to Mother and me.
I don't know how I ever could've
thought that you--
Mr. Cogley,
ruining Jim won't change
what's happened.
That's very commendable,
Miss Finney, but most unusual.
After all,
Captain Kirk is accused
of causing
your father's death,
and the evidence
would indicate his guilt.
- I was just thinking of Jim.
- I know, and I thank you.
I have to go and change.
You ready?
No, but I may
be getting ready.
Bishop, half level right.
- Well, I had to see it to believe it.
- Explain.
They're about to lop off the captain's
professional head, and you're
- playing chess with the computer.
- That is true.
Mr. Spock, you're the most
cold-blooded man I've ever known.
Why, thank you, Doctor.
I'vejust won my fourth game.
- That's impossible.
- Observe for yourself.
Rook to king's pawn 4.
Bishop half level right.
Now, this is
the computer's move.
And now mine.
Checkmate.
Mechanically,
the computer's flawless.
Therefore, logically,
its report
of the captain's guilt
is infallible.
I could not
accept that, however.
So you tested
the program bank.
Exactly.
I programmed it myself
for chess some months ago.
The best I should've been
able to attain was a draw.
Well, why are you
just sitting there?
Transporter room, stand by.
We're beaming down.
Court is now in session.
The board will
entertain motions
before delivering
its verdict.
Counsel for the prosecution?
Sir, the prosecution rests.
Counsel for the defense?
Sir--
- The defense rests.
- [Door Opens]
Mr. Cogley.
Mr. Cogley!
Sir, some new evidence has just
been brought to my attention.
- I'd like to ask the court--
- Objection!
Counsel for the defense
has rested his case.
- Of what nature is this evidence?
- I can't tell you, I have to show you.
Mr. Cogley is well-known
for his theatrics.
Is saving an innocent man's
career a theatric?
Counsels will direct
their remarks to the bench.
I'd be delighted to, sir,
now that I've got
something human to talk about.
Rights, sir, human rights--
the Bible, the Code
of Hammurabi
and of Justinian,
Magna Carta,
the Constitution
of the United States,
fundamental declarations
of the Martian colonies,
the statutes of Alpha 3--
Gentlemen, these documents
all speak of rights.
Rights of the accused
to a trial by his peers,
to be represented by counsel,
the rights of cross-examination,
but most importantly,
the right to be confronted
by the witnesses against him--
a right to which my client
has been denied.
Your Honor, that is ridiculous.
We produced the witnesses in court.
My learned opponent
had the opportunity
- to see them, cross-examine them--
- All but one!
The most devastating witness
against my client
is not a human being.
It's a machine,
an information system.
The computer log
of the Enterprise.
I ask this court adjourn and
reconvene aboard that vessel.
- I protest, Your Honor.
- And I repeat,
I speak of rights.
A machine has none.
A man must.
My client has the right
to face his accuser,
and if you do not
grant him that right,
you have brought us down
to the level of the machine.
Indeed, you have elevated
that machine above us.
I ask that my motion
be granted,
and more than that, gentlemen,
in the name of humanity,
fading in the shadow
of the machine,
I demand it.
I demand it!
Captain's Log,
Stardate 2950. 1.
After due
consideration,
the general court-martial
has reconvened
on board the Enterprise.
How many games of chess
did you win
from the computer,
Mr. Spock?
Five in all.
- May that be considered unusual?
- Affirmative.
Why?
I personally programmed
the computer for chess months ago.
I gave the machine
an understanding of the game
equal to my own.
The computer cannot
make an error.
Assuming that I
do not either,
the best that could
normally be hoped for
would be stalemate
after stalemate,
and yet I beat
the machine five times.
Someone, either accidentally
or deliberately,
adjusted the programming
and, the refore, the memory banks
of that computer.
Could that have had an effect
on the visual playback we saw?
Object!
The witness would be
making a conclusion.
- Sustained.
- Hypothetically, Mr. Spock,
hypothetically, Miss Shaw,
if what you suggest had been done,
it would be beyond
the capabilities of most men.
- Is that true?
- Affirmative.
What man aboard ship
would it not be beyond?
The captain, myself,
and the records officer.
Mm-hmm.
And at the moment,
you have
no records officer.
Affirmative.
Until he was lost,
our records officer was
Lieutenant Commander Finney.
Captain Kirk,
will you tell
the steps you took
to find Mr. Finney
after the storm?
I instituted
a Phase 1 search.
Describe
It's a painstaking,
thorough attempt
in and around the ship
to find a man who's
unable to respond.
It presupposes,
does it not,
that a man wishes
to be found?
I beg your pardon?
If you start
a search for a man,
you assume, don't you,
that he wants to be found?
Yes.
On a ship of this size,
could a man
evade such a search?
Possibly.
Gentlemen, I submit to you
that Lieutenant Commander Ben Finney
is not dead.
Mr. Cogley,
we are waiting for proof
of your extraordinary statement.
You shall have it,
but first I need
the court's cooperation
in conducting an experiment.
Captain Kirk.
Gentlemen,
for this experiment,
it'll be necessary
for all personnel,
except for the court and
the command crew, to leave the ship.
I am ordering all others to report
to the transporter room.
- Including myself, sir.
- This court is not adjourned.
I have an errand ashore
of vital importance to this court.
- I will return.
- Very well.
Thank you, sir.
Captain, are you maintaining
an engine crew aboard?
Our impulse engines have been shut down.
We'll maintain orbit by momentum.
When the orbit decays?
We hope to be finished
long before that.
Ready, Mr. Spock?
Affirmative,
Captain.
Gentlemen,
this computer
has an auditory
sensor.
It can, in effect,
hear sounds.
By installing
a booster,
we can increase
that capability
on the order of
1 to the 4th power.
The computer
should bring us every sound
occurring on the ship.
All personnel have left the ship
as ordered, sir.
Dr. McCoy?
All right,
Mr. Spock.
[Loud Beating]
Turn it down a little.
[Volume Decreases]
Gentlemen, that sound
is caused by the heartbeats
of all the people
on board the ship.
Dr. McCoy will use
this white sound device
to mask out
each person's heartbeat
so that it will be eliminated
from the sounds we're hearing.
First, the captain.
Mr. Spock.
And lastly, myself.
That's all of us,
except for crewman
in the transporter room.
Mr. Spock, eliminate
his heartbeat.
[Heartbeat Continues]
That accounts for everyone.
[Single Heart Beats]
Finney.
Localize that.
"B" Deck.
In or near
Engineering.
Seal off "B" Deck, sections 18-Y
through 23-D.
Acknowledged.
[Beep]
So Finney is alive.
It would seem so.
Commodore, this is
my problem.
I'd appreciate it if
no one left the bridge.
Sam Cogley
had gone a shore
to bring Jame Finney
on board.
We felt
Jame's presence
would make Finney
easierto handle
in the event Finney
really were alive.
Ben.
[Kirk]
Ben Finney.
Mr. Spock,
encountering variants.
- Compensate.
- What is happening?
The orbit's beginning to decay.
Ben, where are you?
Hello, Captain!
Nothing to say,
Captain?
I'm glad
you're alive.
You mean
you're relieved
because you think
your career
is saved.
Well,you're wrong.
Ben!
Ben, it's not
too late.
We can help you.
Like you helped me
all along, kept me down,
robbed me
of my own command?
I'm a good officer.
As good as you.
I've watched you
for years.
The great Captain Kirk.
They told you
to do it to me.
You all conspired
against me.
You ruined me,
but you won't
do it anymore.
Uhh.
Put the phaser
down, Ben.
Oh, I wouldn't
kill you, Captain.
Your own death would mean
too little to you,
But your ship--
What about my ship?
It's dead.
I've killed it.
I tapped out
your primary energy circuits.
Mr. Spock, what's
our orbit status?
Decaying, Captain.
Variants
at second level
depreciating
unusually fast.
You're out of power.
I know
this ship, too.
The Enterprise
should've been mine.
You kept me from it.
Ben.
Why kill
innocent people?
Innocent?
Ha ha ha!
Officers and gentlemen,
captains all,
except for Finney
and his one mistake
a long time ago,
but they
don't forget.
I logged the mistake,
Ben. Blame me.
But they are to blame.
All of them.
I was a good officer.
I really was.
I loved the service more
than any man ever dared.
Mr. Spock,
we're running out of time.
Gentlemen, if you'll hurry
to the transporter room--
Mr. Spock, the court
hasn't reached a verdict.
We will hear
this witness out.
Very well, sir.
It's not too late.
You can be helped,
but if you kill
those people--
Why shouldn't I?
They killed me,
didn't they?
It's a fair trade.
Is Jame included
in that deal?
What do you mean?
She's on board by now.
Yes. She's on board.
Why did you do that?
Why did you bring
her here?
I'll kill you!
Beaten and sobbing,
Finney told me where
he had sabotaged
the prime energy circuits.
The damage he'd caused
was considerable,
but not irreparable.
With luck,
I could effect repairs
before our orbit
decayed completely.
Power returning,
Mr. Spock.
Up 14 points
and rising.
Activate port
impulse engines.
One-third power.
Variants fading.
Orbit stabilizing.
All secure, sir.
Unless the prosecution
has an objection,
I rule this court
to be dismissed.
Absolutely
no objection, sir.
How long will it be
before I see you again?
At the risk of sounding
like a mystic,
that depends
on the stars.
Sam Cogley asked me
to give you something.
It's not a first edition,
just a book.
Sam says that
makes it special.
I didn't get
to thank him.
He's busy on a case.
He's defending
Ben Finney.
He says he'll win.
I wouldn't be
a bit surprised.
Do you think it would cause
a complete breakdown
of discipline
if a lowly lieutenant
kissed a Starship captain
on the bridge of his ship?
Let's try.
See? No change.
Discipline goes on.
And so must
the Enterprise.
Goodbye,Jim.
Goodbye, Areel.
Better luck next time.
I had pretty good luck
this time.
I lost, didn't l?
She's a very good lawyer.
Obviously.
Indeed she is.
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from OpenSubtitles.org